since the war started my mentality was
that I would never make it we go
electricity no food no water we've had
several air strikes that this temporary
life this is the end for me here in
razza so I need to make the most of it
so I tried to maximize the amount of
Good Deeds that I was doing and prepare
myself mentally for life after death my
name is Mansour Schuman I'm a
Palestinian Canadian citizen
journalist and between us despite
leaving Gaza physically we're just
getting started with the work that needs
to be
done a decision was made uh by myself
and my wife earlier in 2022 that we
wanted to live back closer to home home
being a Palestine um I'm originally from
Jerusalem uh my wife is originally from
a town beside Gaza Strip
October the 7th we woke up at the sound
of thousands of rockets and we didn't
know what was
happening on November the 7th uh the
Canadian government came back to us
saying that they got approval for me and
my family U to all leave Gaza I had a
very open discussion with my family my
wife and children would leave and I
needed to be there to help the people
with whatever I can even if it with as
little as removing Rubble to help people
get out I really hate what I'm doing now
but we need to record this for the world
it was the easiest decision I ever made
in my life uh staying in Gaza honestly
it was like um a calling from from God
saying that Mansour uh you've been
asking to to help people you've been
asking um uh to try and tell the truth
will this is your opportunity Mansour
he's live in conun thank you so much
Mansour for your time I believe that it
was very important to continue doing
what I was doing when it came to
reporting news on different
International TV stations radio
broadcasts uh digital uh platforms and
newspapers and later on that extended
into the social media and into charity
work we are here inside a refugee school
we lived amongst you know tents inside
NASA Hospital together with other
journalists and social media influencers
um every day we would lose a a member of
our family a member or two or a member
of our family would lose their own
relatives the most difficult thing in my
opinion
is seeing the children
suffer I remember seeing um a little
girl standing on the top of her mother
and father who were killed and she was
crying on top of them and telling them
dad mom please wake up you know it's
time to go home why are you still asleep
and image like that uh will will never
leave my
head uh watching these scenes day in day
out I think this was the most difficult
part of all of
this I went with a few friends to check
on the progress of the work we were
doing a lot of charity work we had built
30 tents and we were going to up to 100
and to our surprise for the first time
ever we found that there were Israeli
troops like rushing with with their
vehicles with their tanks and we saw
people fleeing uh that area and we had
to flee with them into kanun refugee
camp so that was the start of me being
away for 2 weeks away from any kind of
internet connection because we tried to
find a safe way back to ner hospital but
we couldn't do that for 2 weeks because
we were bombed by f-16s alhamdulillah
after several attempts we were able to
make it here back to n Hospital the
second time I went missing they were
were bulldozing the IDF the main gates
of NASA Hospital attacking the schools
around us so I decided with a few
friends to make a run for it and we
jumped over the west side of the wall of
nasar hospital and avoided being shot by
a sniper who killed two of my friends
and injured one of them we made our way
inside of kanun and again another two
weeks this time between ruins after I
came back to Naser you know I didn't
find any of my my personal items
so that included my phone my laptop
everything all I had in my pocket was my
passport and my
wallet and I felt lost like I felt that
wow like what what added value can I now
do to the world like I can't continue my
charity work because you know they've
basically just bombarded canas to the
ground I couldn't communicate with the
outside world so um I contacted the
Canadian government the the Consulate in
Jerusalem I told him that look um I
think it's time for me to to leave I
felt that it was a mistake to leave Gaza
I felt that I let my people down but
then friends and family members told me
that Mansour you don't need to be
physically there in Gaza you know maybe
you can add more value while outside
until now I still feel I should have
been in Gaza but the plan is to go back
there this is our land this is our home
[Music]